### 1.2 Importance of Preparation

---

Recruiting in the tech industry follows a structured cycle that serves three primary purposes:
1. **Connecting Candidates with Recruiters**: Companies seek out talented individuals from schools across the country, often starting the recruitment process in mid-summer to early fall. 
2. **Channeling Candidates Through Interviews**: Candidates are filtered through a series of technical and behavioral interviews to assess their suitability for internships or full-time positions.
3. **Maintaining Relationships for Future Recruitment**: Even if you don’t land a position immediately, recruiters may keep you in mind for future opportunities.

#### Timeline

The recruiting process typically begins with online application portals opening in mid-summer. Banks and financial firms that offer engineering internships are usually the first to start accepting applications, often in early July. The bulk of other companies follow suit by October, with most interviews wrapped up by February. It's crucial to apply early in the cycle to increase your chances of getting noticed.

#### Popular Companies

Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon and Apple are the Big 5. They recruit very heavily every year and are often the toughest jobs to get. Other big, but less “heard of” companies are also in the intern market but aren’t where newbies to the process intuitively gravitate toward. Examples of this latter category are Salesforce, Cisco, Intuit and Oracle. On the other hand, medium sized reputed companies like Linkedin, Airbnb, Lyft, Uber, Snap and Palantir are fast becoming extremely attractive places to work due to great growth and work experiences. Some in this category may also be subsidiaries of larger companies. Audible, for example, is an Amazon company. Similarly, Instagram and WhatsApp are Facebook products. The other end of the spectrum comprises start-ups. Startups don’t necessarily follow a structured recruiting cycle - they just kinda wing it. Often, opportunities won’t even be listed on their websites, even though there could be space for a “word of mouth” valuable summer experience. Generally, the larger the startup, the more likely they will offer an engineering role. Many non-traditionally tech companies have also begun offering positions. Examples are banks, trading firms, healthcare companies and even transportation and logistics enterprises. The specifics may vary but the trends are fairly similar, with firms like JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Fidelity, General Motors, Tesla and SpaceX and Bank of America in this category. 

#### Available Positions

Tech roles generally fall into three broad categories:
1. **Engineering**: Front-end, back-end, full-stack, data science, and iOS/Android development.
2. **Product Management**: Involves a mix of coding and project development skills.
3. **UI/UX Design/Research**: Focuses on user experience and interface design.
However, please remember that there are many roles in tech companies that are not related to coding or reliant on coding skills.  These can include marketing, sales, HR, finance, and many others.  

#### Popular Locations

Tech really is everywhere in the US. Silicon Valley in California is unquestionably the hub, with startups a dime a dozen in the locality. Seattle has recently begun challenging the Valley’s monopoly over the tech world, with the Microsoft and Amazon headquarters located in the vicinity. And New York, of course, is the omnipresent competitor. South CA may be a good option, just as Boston and Austin, but you will find jobs everywhere really, from Hartford, CT to Raleigh, NC.

#### Be Motivated

You’re amazing. Remember this throughout the entire recruitment process, especially when people tell you you’re not a great coder, that your achievements aren't good enough or that they carefully read your application but after consideration, decided not to move further with it. A bad interview or a rejection is no fun, and it’s the easiest thing in the world to beat yourself up after it. But becoming an engineer is hard. The world is extremely competitive and people can be harsh; if you’re interviewing, you’re already half-way there. 

Having said this, it’s important to work hard. **Grind**. Prepare, be on top of all of your stuff (skills and applications), be willing to go out on a limb, be creative with your approaches and be consistent. When you feel like giving up, ask why you started in the first place. As Nietzsche put it: “He who has a why can bear almost any how.” If your motivations are strong and your intentions pure, then you’re going to succeed. 

But don’t be arrogant either. Tons of extremely capable but extremely full-of-themself engineers get rejected every year. Companies do want good engineers - but first and foremost, they want good people. Be humble, remember where you came from, smile and sell yourself confidently. 
